1.git branch : Lists out all the branches present in the repository.
 git branch
 
2.git checkout : Allows to checkout or work in a particular branch.
 git checkout branchname

3.merge : Merges files from branch to master ot between branches
 git merge branchname

4.git ignore : ignores a particular file to be added to staging.
  touch .gitignore

5.git push : Push commands allows to push files from local repository
             to remote server.
  git push origin master

6.git stash :Temporary storage of information of the files in staging area
             while checking out to other branches can be done by stash.
  git stash apply

7.git head : Contains head number of the last committed code and file details.
  git show head

8.git pull : Pulls the code from remote server to local repository.
  git pull origin master

9.git remote: Helps in establishing connection with the remote server.
  git remote add origin remoteserver

10.git revert : Allows reverting back to the previous committed changes.
   git revert head headnumber

11.git tag : Allows to give different tags for different versions of code.
   git tag tagname

12.git mv : Allows renaming of file or folder.
   git mv sourcefile destfile

13.git init : initializes an empty repository.
   git init

14.git add : Add commands allows to add files to the repository.
   git add filename

15.git commit : Commits or Saves the file with a comment.
 git commit -m "Message"

16.git clone : Helps in cloning a remote server repository to our local system.
   git clone repositoryurl

17.git restore :The restore command removes uncommitted files from staging state.
   git restore --stage filename

18.git diff : Gives the difference of the changes made on a file.
   git diff filename


19.git log : Gives the log of all commits done on the repository.
 git log

20.git status : It helps in giving status about the staged files and tells if there are
                any files to be committed or all files are up to date.
  git status

21.Setting username: git config --global user.name "<username>"
   Setting email   : git config --global user.email "<email>"

22. Local repository : Our system is basically a local repository where 
                       local changes are done.
    Centralized repository :In centralized repository all the information 
                            about the files are stored at one central place.
    Distributed server :  The entire repository is distributed to many users
                         where everyone can access the code even if the server fails.


23.Features of Git VCS :
        1.Saves time
        2.Track changes
        3.Undo mistakes
        4.Offline working

24. Version control system is a software which helps us in tracking and maintaing 
    the source code..
    Benefits of VCS :
        1. Branching and Merging
        2.Traceability 
        3.Entire Change history of the files
        4.Simultaneous working 

25.Index represents the staging area between the present working directory and
   repository.The modified files should be first added and then they move to staged area and then 
   committed.

                      

